in january of 2021 what i hear both in
the mainstream media
and here on youtube is an unwillingness
to deal with the neo-nazi issue
and an eagerness to dismiss
everything going on on the far right
as stupidity now
stupidity is real
ignorance matters the question of
the level of intelligence
education and political competence
of the people the united states of
america really matters if those
questions are being taken seriously but
what do we accomplish
by dismissing these people as stupid
that neither helps us understand the
problem
nor does it help us solve it
the thing about neo-nazis
is that
a lot of them are individuals who have
had their trust
absolutely shattered by events in their
personal life
that were rather tragic
a lot of nazis
have kind of chaotic family situations
and have experienced
the worst this world has to offer
i have been constantly verbally abused
verbally assaulted and harassed for
years
ever since i came of age ever since i
turned
18 i sacrificed
my public reputation to tell the world
hitler was right
as somebody who was a teenager who
fixated on history and fixated on
facts i fixated on
learning about the world well why did i
do that as a teenager why why wasn't
that concerned about boys
and uh clothing and uh
all other things that girls are
concerned about
well you can guess my home life was not
ideal
it was not ideal
you could make assumptions all you want
about what was going on
it just was not ideal becoming a
a young person becoming the craziest
teenager in your country
i actually uh wear that badge proudly
the crazy i was the craziest
teenager in canada the most neglected
teenager in canada i will say though
there is an individual who is very
famous whom
i relate to so much
and that person's name is danielle
bregoli
who's danielle bregoli some people
may ask she's the cash me outside
girl she's the girl on dr phil who was
absolutely out of control
i relate to her a lot not because i
behaved like her no i behaved in a
different way
but i relate to the the family dynamic
that she had
when she was younger and today
in 2021 actually years ago
after she got famous she got therapy and
now she
she says that her family is great and
she has repaired things
so have i but i didn't use money to do
it
i didn't have any money i'm doxxed
my name is veronica bouchard and i will
say that proudly i'm doxxed
i'm proud of being doxxed i am socially
ostracized probably one of the most
socially ostracized
individuals on the planet and i am
coming out of hiding
i denounce everybody who
has ever lived everybody
i denounce everybody including uncle
adolf
and i'm not going to go antifa
i'm not going to go liberal i don't give
a [ __ ] about politics anymore
politics can go to hell all i care about
are individuals who are alive and
breathing
on this earth at the moment and
everything else
i could care less about the past
history concepts
philosophy i throw it all out the window
and i'm finally improving myself for the
better
i'm not perfect and maybe in a couple
years i'll look back on this like
but you know what
it's all a story to be continued thanks
for watching
if you know who that was you know that
the story's
already over don't you
that young woman can never have a normal
job
she can never be a schoolteacher she
could never even join the canadian army
i don't think the u.s army would have
her either if she were a man
maybe she'd get into the french foreign
legion they take convicted criminals
her status her future is in many ways
much more bleak
and desperate than convicted criminals
and why
because she got into bed with the far
right
the alt-right neo-nazis
have a colleague here on youtube
he has experience as a vegan activist
organizer filmmaker
and he had a dismissive attitude towards
this problem and i think that dismissive
attitude
is rooted in this
gesture but these people are all idiots
these people are stupid
does it really matter he asked me does
it really matter
if john rose is coming on youtube
and recruiting people into a neo-nazi
movement they're all idiots they're all
and and i think
part of that dismissive mentality is by
looking at the
end point of political violence and
cultural change
basically saying well these people
aren't about to lead a revolution
these people aren't about to kill
anybody are they
i'm recording this in january of the
year 2021
there just just was an attempt of
a bunch of neo-nazis to quash the
outcome of a democratic election in the
capitol building in washington d.c
it was a failed attempt at a revolution
or a coup d'etat
but and a few people did get killed but
this is part of this dismissive
mentality they're just a bunch of idiots
who aren't going to lead a revolution
who aren't going to change the world who
aren't going to accomplish
and they're not going to kill anybody
and there's no interest in the question
of to what extent
this will destroy their lives the extent
to which
joining the alt-right flirting with
neo-nazis etc
will destroy any future potential
for those neo-nazis themselves
they render themselves unemployable they
remind themselves
political pariahs so much so
that at some point they have nothing to
lose
and they might as well attempt to murder
someone or
or put themselves in prison now look
my parents were political extremists
at the other end
i was raised to be a communist and not a
moderate communist
i was raised to follow in the footsteps
of joseph stalin and
mao zedong i proved to be very resistant
to my parents ideology but nevertheless
it's not hard for me to imagine
maybe not at 18 maybe more like
15 it's not hard for me to imagine
that in another world i could have ended
up making videos
at a young enough age that i was still
you know
influenced by my parents ideology that i
made a fool of myself
in the same way evalian did right that i
could have come on the camera
and identified with this despicable
ideology and
rendered myself unemployable forever and
the fact is
my life as i actually did live it
i'm in the paradoxical position of
saying to you i did nothing wrong
and i've rendered myself unemployable
anyway okay
before i even came on youtube i've got
to tell you i would show people my
resume
showing that i've done humanitarian work
in cambodia showing that i've done
research
and published peer-reviewed articles
about buddhist philosophy
that may be unemployable right something
i shouldn't have to be ashamed of
i shouldn't have to apologize for going
to cambodia to do humanitarian i
shouldn't even be proud of it
all right i know just how narrow and
conformist the society we live in is
and i ended up applying to join
the army myself because i went and spoke
to my professors at the university
and they told me there's no future for
me there's no job for me anywhere else
nothing else is possible not even if i
get a master's degree and a phd so i
might as well just
join the army now that's that's what
they told me
and unlike a value i'm not ashamed of
what i've got in the internet
i'm not ashamed of the life i lived off
the internet okay
so what i said to this other youtuber
wasn't a very long conversation what i
said was
how can you possibly diminish
and disregard the significance of
neo-nazis
coming on youtube and recruiting other
people into neo-nazism
when you yourself know you yourself have
seen
the extent to which people will watch
just one video
on one youtube channel and become
passionately committed
to veganism and transform their whole
lives
right it wasn't a real long conversation
i mean like you know just stop and look
in the mirror
you know this you felt this it probably
happened to you yourself
yes people come on the internet and
in this sense they get taken advantage
of and what kind of person
gets taken advantage of by ideologies
people who are weak people who are
intellectually weak
people who are emotionally weak people
who are needy
it's easy to dismiss these people as
stupid
and they are it's easy to dismiss their
whole political movement as stupid
because it is but dismissing it as
stupid
doesn't solve the problem and also
doesn't teach us anything about a
problem it doesn't
lead to us having a better analysis or
understanding of the problem
i learned a lot listening to evalian's
recent videos even though they are
somewhat incoherent and internally
self-contradictory the main thing i
learned is that
from the perspective of people like her
from the perspective
of the neo-nazis she used to fraternize
with
racism isn't some kind of bug
in the system for their ideology they're
consciously aware that it's the only
thing that differentiates them from the
authoritarian
left wing that was that was really
stunning
really startling for me to hear i was
aware that there were plenty of
right wingers who idealized and looked
up to
japan as an example japan as an example
of an ethno state
i have even seen some fascists
especially in italy
who look to israel as a positive example
of an ethnostate despite the history of
anti-semitism and fascism where they say
no
israel is a positive example not a
negative example of what they want to do
whether that's the future of europe or
the future of america or what have you
but i had never before heard or seen the
extent to which
these neo-nazis are willing to look at
present-day
communist china as a positive example
they are aware of the extent to which
adolf hitler's movement
and the history of 20th century fascism
really was a form of socialism
even if an incredibly perverse
dark and distorted vision of socialism
that nevertheless that was something
that began as socialism
that had left-wing elements and that
still today
if you take away the racism if you take
away that white nationalism if you take
away the
paranoia about the looming like
extinction or endangerment of the the
white race the replacement theory and
all the race reels and all that
horseshit
if you take that away they're really
just a bunch
of authoritarian left wingers who
irrationally blame the jews for their
problems
rather than blaming the ruling class as
a whole
that was stunning for me to hear it was
stunning for me to hear that someone
like her
is aware that the vast majority of
bankers and just
members of the money to elite in the
united states of america
are not jewish and are not part of any
jewish conspiracy that this is really
just a kind of
recruitment tool for their racist
movement
to misrepresent marxist class analysis
and call for a revolution that is really
not much different from a communist
authoritarian revolution
to misrepresent it as appealing to
conservatives and right-wingers
by emphasizing the extent to which
differences between social classes
can be conflated with differences
between ethnic groups
in this case specifically or especially
blaming the jews i learned a lot
from listening to these bizarre
incoherent rants
from evaluating i learned about the
extent to which
her own engagement with neo-nazi
ideology
came from her fear that she would
discover
that her own genetic ancestry was in
part jewish
it was very interesting to hear that she
regards this now as a phobia
that she had an irrational fear a terror
of discovering herself to be a member of
exactly the ethnic group
she most hated and reviled and she
recognized that there never was
a good reason to hate or revile those
ethnic groups
i gained some analytical understanding
of what's going on as the alt-right now
frankly breaks down into compost
and something new sprouts from it
we all know the problem
in the united states of america is
education
do you know how much money it costs
to get a bachelor's degree in political
science
in the united states of america
what if just that one subject
were tuition free what if everything
else remains
fifty thousand dollars a year minimum
this grotesque system of education
that exists in the united states of
america but in the same way that
for so many centuries bible college
was the one way for poor people to get
ahead it was the one form of book
learning they could get
was to sign up with some baptist bible
college and become a minister and of
course many
many famous african-american political
leaders got out of
poverty and eventually got into
political power by going through
bible colleges and becoming a reverend
minister or what have you using whatever
name
of course they practice public speaking
that way and so on and so forth
what if just the study of politics
became tuition-free in the united states
american what if
resentful poor confused
redneck americans
who are poor and don't know why and are
hopeless and don't know why
and live in cities with no urban
planning
and no subway system no bus system no
train system
and no architecture and no heritage and
indeed no meaningful sense of identity
that's a real issue with the vast
majority of white americans united
states america the fact that they're
living in a culture
that's just a thin veneer painted onto
the history
of british colonial genocide
you know the cultural poverty of the
united states of america runs deep
and you know that's why as a result
these people struggle with
this tremendous intellectual poverty and
frankly political incompetence what's
what's the way out of that what's the
solution you know the solution
can't possibly be privileged
people like myself who are at a much
much higher level of political education
both
formally and informally just sneering at
and dismissing these people who never
could
possibly access the kind of political
education i
have and that i take for granted many
months ago
maybe about a year ago now i spoke to a
young man who had been recruited
into neo-nazism uh this is over the
internet not face-to-face
it was a voice voice chat and um
he knew all these ludicrous things
he knew all these things that if you
have any level of education just seem
preposterous and just
can't be true um about ancient greece
about ancient rome about ancient egypt
even
the history of north africa not just
western europe you know
and like every single thing he was
saying
it had kind of it was like 10 to 20
percent
had some factual basis but then it was
just to a ludicrous extent kind of
reimagined and reinvented in its
significance and misrepresented
by you know neo-nazi propagandists
aristotle is not easy to read
aristotle is not easy to understand the
real political legacy
of ancient greece and ancient rome and
even ancient egypt or what have you
the real significance of that history
is not easily accessed and the people
who could explain that stuff to you the
people who could sit down
with an 18 year old kid and talk them
through aristotle
and motivate them and help them to
really understand the political history
of europe or of the whole world not even
get into ancient indian ancient china
here but but i could
but let's stick to aristotle for the
purpose of this video
the people who could do that sitting
down with an 18 year old kid
who ultimately wants to make the world a
better place and to some extent may well
be burdened with resentment
about their own upbringing in
topeka kansas wherever it is they're
from they grew up somewhere where life
was awful and they don't know why
okay and they feel oppressed and they
don't know who's oppressing them
yeah they want to make the world a
better place but a large part of that
impulse is going to be destructive
rather than constructive inevitably the
people who
could sit down and explain
aristotle to an 18 year old and guide
them through that reading
day by day week by week charge a price
tag
of more than 50 000 a year
in tuition and most of these kids
they won't even come out of a high
school
that will empower them or enable them to
enroll in that education
if they could afford it or if they were
offered a scholarship
and you know what the contrast is
whoever
wrote these crazy books that totally
misinterpret and totally misrepresent
the history of athens the history of
greece the history of
egypt and ancient rome and i'm sure they
go on to misrepresent the history of uh
modern france germany so forth whoever
wrote that
pseudo history those people
are on youtube right now recruiting
they're offering young men and young
women a road to power
a road to feeling special to feeling
well-informed to feeling that they're
part of a political movement that's
going to change the world
and they're willing to sit down and take
the time and say hey they won't just
give you the book
they're going to talk you all the way
through the book they're going to
indoctrinate you
right and those young people will feel
like they're more and more powerful
they'll feel
like they're better informed that
they've unlocked the mysteries
of ancient athens in ancient rome on and
on they'll feel they've had access
to this set of facts about the history
of the world that otherwise were denied
them
but the reality is those things were
only denied them
because the united states of america is
the wealthiest country in the world
with the worst system of higher
education in the world
[Music]
you